+++
date = 2014-12-09T10:26:14Z
draft = true
title = "Kodsnack 80 - Where numbers don't have to be special anymore"
slug = "80"
aliases = ["/blog/2014/12/9/80"]
categories = ["avsnitt"]
audiofile = "http://traffic.libsyn.com/"
libsynid = ""
+++

We chat with Stefan Karpinski, creator of Julia live on stage during [Øredev](http://www.oredev.org) 2014. Topics include the interesting unsolved problems of numerical computing, concurrency solutions, developing with and on LLVM. Deciding to build a new language. Polymorphism. Handling deprecation nicely. Things (possibly) in the future for Julia. Debugging. And why Swift is exciting for Julia and other languages.

This recording exists as good as it is thanks to [Stephen Chin](http://steveonjava.com/) of [nighthacking.com](http://nighthacking.com/) for providing and masterfully wrangling all the necessary technology.

There is a minute and a half of worse audio quality just after the nine minute mark, where microphone problems forced us to fill in with audio from our backup microphone.

You can [discuss this episode](http://techworld.idg.se/2.2524/1.599981/) at Techworld!

[Diskutera](http://techworld.idg.se/2.2524/1.598697) gärna avsnittet på Techworld!

## Länkar ##
* Stefan Karpinski
* Julia programming language
* Scientific computing
* Raol Shah
* Jeff Besanzin
* Matlab
* R
* Python
* C extension (for other languages)
* Goldilocks
* Goldilocks language
* Dylan
* Machine arithmetic
* Garbage collection
* Unboxed data
* Complex numbers
* Julia's builtin web stack
* Numerical computing
* Concurrency
* Distributed computing
* Threading
* Julia's source code
* Transactional memory
* Goroutines
* Coroutines
* Channels
* I/O
* LLVM
* IFDEF
* JIT - just in time
* Shared libraries
* Libclang
* Tempate instantiation
* Quake engine in Julia - QuakeJL
* Go
* Hacker school - writer's retreat for programmers
* Maxtrix multiplication
* Vectroisation
* Generational incremental garbage collection
* Snowball
* Spitball
* Icon
* Commit
* Perl 4
* C99 standard
* Immutable composite types
* Multiple dispatch
* Monkey patch
* R@-hack for + in Python?
* Common Lisp
* CLOS
* Multimethods
* Polymorphism
* Self
* BLAS - Basic linear algebra system
* Fast fourier transform
* Go's tool for automatic code rewriting
* Trace execution
* Static compilation
* MIT
* Stanford courses in Julia
* C function pointer
* SciPy
* Steve Johnson
* FFTW
* Pycall package for Julia
* Stack frame and stack trace
* GDB
* LLDB
* ABI
* Clang
* Rust
* Swift
* Chris Lattner
* FTL
* Shadow stack
* Dynamic stack frame deoptimization
* Aggressive method specialization
* Matlab array concatenation syntax

## Titlar ##
* Some of the interesting tradeoffs
* Bridge that gap between high-level and low-level
* A huge pointer graph of some kind
* It's good to have a focus, initially
* The point where we're pushing things
* The classic tradition of a ton of IFDEFs
* This brings us back to garbage collection
* Specializing for numerical work
* Where numbers don't have to be special anymore
* (The question is:) How useful is that generalization?
* You don't necessarily know what code you're going to need in advance
* Trading off memory for performance
* Really doing the deprecation process
* A situation where normally you'd JIT something
* You might end up in a slow case
* You can always just fall back on an interpreter
* A partially compiled interpreter
* Nobody needs to know that it was written in Julia
* A really capable C library
* As easy as walking a linked pointer list
* I'm really glad someone else implemented it